No one
is watching Israel's war against Hamas
more closely
than the Russian president,
Vladimir Putin,
who is now trying to seize on the war
to say that it is
a battle
between the United States
and Israel versus the rest of the world.
Fred Pleitgen is OUTFRONT
as Israel's
military continues its war against Hamas.
Russian leader Vladimir Putin is framing
the conflict
as part of a global struggle of America
and the West
against the rest of the world.
Even the
new British,
it's the current ruling elites
of the United States
and their satellites
that are the main beneficiaries
of global instability.
They extract their blood toll from it.
While many nations around the world
condemned Hamas
after the October 7th
raid on southern Israel,
killing more than 1400
and taking hundreds of
hostages, including Russians
Russia invited a high
level Hamas delegation
to Moscow for meetings.
A top Hamas leader
saying the group would give preference
to captives
from what they call their, quote,
Russian friends at home.
This request from Russia
we treat more positively
and attentively
than others
due to the nature of our relations
with Russia. So,
so far,
no Russian hostages
appear to have been released.
Still, Moscow
not criticizing Hamas
Instead, ripping only into Israel
for the many Palestinians
killed by the IDF's
ongoing aerial campaign in Gaza
some day, terrorism Condemning terrorism.
We categorically disagree
that terrorism can be responded
to by violating the norms
of international humanitarian law,
including the indiscriminate
use of force against targets
where the civilian population
is known to be located.
But for years,
it was Russia that waged a relentless
bombing campaign
against areas
held by rebels
opposed to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.
The U.S.
and various international
aid groups accused Moscow
of deliberately targeting civilian areas,
including hospitals and markets,
killing and wounding scores.
Even though the Kremlin
has consistently denied those claims.
And Russia's war against
Ukraine continues.
Moscow once again
harming civilian structures
overnight in the port
town, Odessa, wounding several people
Vladimir Putin, though, trying to argue
that Russia
is invading Ukraine
to help the Palestinians international.
So does
the nations of These are all soldiers
and officers.
And the choice of a real man,
a real warrior, is to pick up arms
and stand in line with his brothers,
be in a place where the fate of Russia
and of the whole world is being decided,
including the future
of the Palestinian people,
leadership, Palestine.
Vladimir Putin
there errand essentially
trying to pit the entire rest
of the world
against the US and its allies,
including, of course, Israel as well.
And this is not new from Vladimir Putin
pretty much since he's invaded Ukraine.
He's been
speaking about
wanting a new world order, as he puts it,
one in which countries like China
and Russia are much stronger and the U.S.
is weakened Aaron.
Fred, thank you very much.
And I want to go now to Barack
Ravi, the Axios foreign policy reporter,
long time Israeli reporter as well.
All right.
Great to speak with you.
And obviously, you know,
you hear Fred's reporting there
and you've done extensive
reporting on Putin and Russia's
role here.
What is Vladimir Putin doing here?
And I think
what we see from Vladimir Putin
since the beginning of this war
is something that, at least from
my point of view, was very unusual
because for more than a decade, Vladimir
Putin tried to maintain
a close relationship with Israel.
And during this conflict,
he just decided to
throw Israel under the bus.
And when you think about it,
when you try and go like you know,
30,000 feet up,
you maybe know the reason why.
Because if you look at this war, the
I think the person who
gets the most out of this
war is Vladimir Putin
when after the entire world
attention was on his invasion to Ukraine.
Now, the entire attention
of the international community
is on the Middle East.
And it gets gets him a lot of air
to do things without anybody watching.
And Fred showed
that Moscow had invited
top Hamas leaders to visit
after the October 7th terror attacks.
So they made a point, right?
It's not just saying things
between the lines.
It's an invitation to come visit us.
But because, you know, Hamas
has been meeting
with top Russian officials,
including the foreign minister,
Sergei Lavrov,
this has been going on for years,
including multiple times
since Russia invaded Ukraine.
So what do you think this means is
I mean, this is an investment over time.
That's true.
But and it's a big but Vladimir Putin
for years, one of his prides was that
he takes care of Russian speaking
people abroad.
He still sees them as part of Russia
in another part of the world.
And Israel is a country
where you have
1 million Russian speaking people.
And a lot of many of them
were harmed in the October 7th attack.
And Putin didn't seem to care.
And I think that the fact
that they invited
the Hamas delegation
a few days later,
I think that was a clear message.
On which side Putin is on.
It's pretty incredible, though,
the point that you point out,
1 million Russian speakers.
And I think something many,
many may not realize about about Israel.
And some of them, by the way,
some of them are hostages in Gaza
right now. Right.
Right.
As he meets with Hamas
in that context, in this interview
that Prime Minister
Netanyahu just gave to ABC News,
he says, I think Israel
will for an indefinite period
have the overall security responsibility
because we've seen
what happens when we don't have it,
referring to Gaza.
Now, we know his ministers have said
that he's intimated this before Barak,
but he puts the word indefinite on it.
What do you see here?
I think that what we're going to see in
Gaza is in many ways similar
to what we see in the West Bank
in the last 15 years.
And this is that Israel keeps
the overall security responsibility
for itself
coming every night
into Palestinian cities
to arrest suspects of terror activity.
Obviously, Gaza is not the West Bank.
It's not going to be exactly the same.
But I think that when it comes to the do
the policy Israel will try to
do the same thing
it is doing in the West Bank
now in Gaza, again,
after this operation
will end
and who knows
how long it is going to take.
All right, Barak,
thank you
very much, as always,
for your perspective. We appreciate it.
Thank you.